A simple model of a neuron


So based on the roles of the dendrites, nucleus and axons, let's just assign those roles to a set of inputs, a calculation unit and an output respectively to come up with the block diagram you can see at the right. We'll call the inputs x0 through xn minus one for a neuron with n inputs. 

Now, biological neurons seems to react in different sensitivities to different incoming signals. So we'll model that mathematically by assigning a weight to each input channel. Let's call them w0 through wn minus one. Next, the computation performed in order to fire or not is a simple weighted sum as shown inside the circle. And that's exactly what our output will be. 

Here's an example of how a neuron would help us classify. Let's suppose we have a two-input neuron and we feed data with two features into it. These features are shown in the plot at the right, which shows the risk of getting some medical condition, x, based on two factors, A and B as the horizontal and vertical axis. Each point represents a person and its shape represents that person's risk of getting that medial condition. Triangles are at risk while squares are not at risk. 

Let's say these points come from a number of observations in a research study. Now let's suppose we want to predict if a person is at risk of getting that medical condition x based on factors A and B alone. We could feed A through x0 and B through x1 into our neuron and it will give us some useful information. 

Notice that the weights I assigned to the inputs are one and minus one. This means that the boundary that divides positive and negative output results 