Before we start, there are some things you should know. 

First and foremost, you must feel comfortable with writing code in C++. If you're not sure, I suggest that you give it a try until you reach the first programming exercise. If you still need some training, go ahead and browse our library to choose one of our many courses on C++. 

You'll also need some basic knowledge on the C++ standard template library. If you lack this knowledge, or if you think you need to brush up on it, I recommend that you take my LinkedIn Learning course, titled "The C++ Standard Template Library." Although you won't need an IDE to run your C++ code, I'll use Visual Studio Community, but you may use your favorite development environment. 

We'll write and test all of our code with your C++ compiler and the standard template library. So you don't need any additional libraries. However, my implementation of the final challenge has a graphical user interface that uses JUCE, and multi-platform framework for creating GUIs that run identically on Windows, MacOS, and Linux. 

So if you'd like to follow along and tweak the code for my implementation of the final application challenge, you'll have to install JUCE. If not, don't worry. I've provided the executable files of my application for all three platforms anyway. Lastly, you'll need a basic understanding of college level mathematics. We'll be discussing functions, like summations and exponentials. So having experience with that level of mathematics will be helpful.