Segment display recognition

Congratulations for making it this far. You've learned an impressive number of concepts that will be useful in your journey into artificial intelligence and machine learning. Now it's time to have some fun with a practical application of your brand new multilayer perceptron class. The project is a simplified version of Optical Character Recognition, or OCR. So let me tell you a few details about OCR. 

It's a set of algorithms used to recognize characters in a picture. It's useful for many applications like digitizing books or documents. For example, if you have an old book, a contract or a printed document you'd like to convert to a PDF file. A more advanced version of OCR is used for taking notes by hand on your tablet or smartphone. This software is able to learn from your own handwriting. 

Another application is actually reading. I'm talking about systems that are supposed to understand written text in front of them. A nice example would be a robot that reads books out loud. It has to understand the printed characters prior to converting text to speech. Now, about our project, it's a Segment Display Recognition system, which I decided to call SDR. This is not a formal term. I just came up with the name but if you do a web search for systems that recognize digits from seven-segment displays, you'll find lots of interesting projects and research papers. 

The objective here is to recognize digits from a single seven-segment display like this one. The letters shown inside each segment are their standard names, a through g. We are all familiar with these displays and these are the most popular digit patterns for seven-segment displays and they are the ones we will use for training our neural network. So again, the objective is to recognize multi-digit numbers by first recognizing the digits separately. 

This is a suitable task for a neural network because the input may come from a picture or a camera used by some computer vision system. The software will extract the brightness of each segment and send that seven-number vector to our neural network. We'll take it from there. Since we'll receive the brightness of each segment, our neural network will have the chance to generalize and guess what a pattern really means. In other words, not all numbers will have a 100% brightness in every segment that's on. Actually, there may be some ambiguous patterns. 

Take this alarm clock, for example. The second digit looks like a zero but it has its middle segment, segment G, somewhat visible. So it may be an eight. Here's another example. Look at the third digit. It's easy for a human to know that's a four even though its segment F, the leftmost is quite dim. We as human wouldn't expect this digit to be a minus one. Well, for these ambiguous patterns, our neural network may be a very good alternative to a simple lookup table.