Solution: Design your own SDR neural network

I came up with three possible solutions for this single digit SDR neural network. The first has seven inputs and one output. The second has seven inputs and 10 outputs. And the third has seven inputs and seven outputs. Let me tell you what I was thinking when I designed each of them. My first network has seven inputs, one hidden layer with seven neurons and one output. In fact, all three designs have just one hidden layer with seven neurons. 

My thinking was to allow each segment to affect one neuron exclusively if needed. You could have used more or less neurons in this layer, and you could have used more hidden layers. Now, since I only have one output neuron, my output will be a real value between zero and one. So some calculations have to be made to output numbers from zero to nine. I was thinking of assigning buckets to encode each digit. 

For example, anything from 0.1 to 0.1999 many nines, will correspond to one. Anything from 0.5 to 0.5999 many nines will correspond to five. That is, the recognized digit will be the truncated integer of 10 times the output. Although this is a valid model, a one output neural network for a multi-class problem is almost always avoided and discouraged. The reason is that it has many setbacks and the alternatives are much better at little to no cost. Here we have two things that are wrong about this approach. 

First, we are solving a classification problem with a regression tool. The sigmoid function in the output makes it a binary classification tool. So assigning the output values to uniformly distributed buckets in the output domain is not an easy task with the nonlinear sigmoid because those buckets are in so uniformly distributed for the input domain. The reason for this is that we are using a good tool for the wrong problem. In other words, we are drilling with a screwdriver, it may get the job done but our drill would do a much better job. 

Here's the second reason not to use this model. We are assigning the values to consecutive buckets in the output. That is, we are mapping our unrelated classes to sequential values as if our classes needed to be sorted that way. Yes, in our segment recognition system, we are using digits but they don't have to represent their values, they're just symbols for now. Think about it with a different example like this one with four classes, bird, dog, cat, and mouse. There's no real reason to say that dog is greater than mouse or bird is greater than cat. So with this mapping we're constraining our classifiers to satisfy an additional and useless requirement. This adds complexity to the learning struggle of our neural network. So this is my first system. 

Once again, this is a valid model but there's a universally accepted alternative. My second network is that alternative. It has the required seven inputs and 10 outputs in a technique known as one-hot encoding. What this means is that each of the outputs represents one of the output classes, and so each of the output neurons will raise its hand if you will, whenever we entered the pattern that neuron is sensitive to. The way for us to show the recognized number would be to report the class of the output with the greatest value. 

Notice that we've solved both problems of the previous model. All of the classes have their own independent neuron, so they're not constrained by each other. How's that for a convenient alternative to the one output system. There's really no reason not to choose this system. My third system is something different. This one has the seven inputs and seven outputs that also represent the same seven segments. So yes, whenever you enter say the pattern for number four, it will output the same pattern for number four. 

Now this may not sound like a very good idea at first, but think of it like the text predictor in your smartphone, which suggests to complete the words you are typing. Well, this system will suggest to complete the number you are entering, if we were to edit the number pattern we are sending into the network. My objective here is not to predict numbers entered segment by segment over time, because that's not done in reality. However, this system is able to let you peek into the reasoning of a neural network. 

This system will show you how certain it is of the pattern it has recognized.