Challenge: Train your own SDR neural network


It's time to train this segment display recognition neural network you designed. So here's what you have to do in this challenge. Create the neural network you just designed. Train it, either using the provided data sets or your own. Now my data set is the very minimum. We'll simply train the network with the 10 ideal patterns. So you may add your own patterns if you want. Train the network for a large number of epochs, something between 1,000 and 3,000 epochs will do the trick. 

Just like the XR training challenge, we will not use the validation or test faces. Finally, test the neural network with your own samples. Do this in the text terminal to keep it quick and simple. Now, the demo programs I will show you in the next video implement all three models with sliders, buttons and other GUI controls. And you'll have the chance to use your neural network in these demos if you'd like. 

So remember, you're only expected to test your neural network in the terminal. Of course, if you'd still like to make your own GUI, please feel free to do so. So as usual, I prepared some testing code at the bottom of the main function. Here you should be ready to write your own code. But I've provided the very minimum training set for the three models I showed you in case you decided to implement one of them. This code works, but it simply prints out the mean squared error obtained after training each neural network. 

So, starting at line 74, we have the dataset for the seven to one neural network. Notice that the patterns in the input are entered with zeros and ones. Once again, you may want to add patterns representing the same numbers with plausible values, like 0.25 for a dim segment and 0.87 for a bright one. Take a minute to read these lines and verify that each sample corresponds to the number in the comment at the right. Now for the labels, notice that I'm assigning each pattern to the midpoint of its intended bucket. For example, the pattern for three is mapped to 0.35 and the pattern for seven is mapped to 0.75. 

Scrolling down to line 95, we have the patterns for the seven to 10 neural network. The patterns are the same as before, but notice the nice identity matrix look of the labels. That's how one-hot encoding looks like, no pun intended. Finally, here's the simplistic data set for the seven to seven neural network, starting at line 116. Again, at first glance it may look silly to assign the same input values to the outputs, but actually I find it very interesting. 

Remember, you are expected to test the segment recognition architecture you designed. So if you designed one of the three I included here, you're welcome to use it's part of the code and feel free to comment out or delete the lines where the other models are used. Then again, you may test all three if you want. Either way, test your system by feeding different patterns to the run function. Try playing around with more training patterns, more or less training epochs, or tweak the bias and learning rate to see how the behavior changes. 

This shouldn't take you much longer than 15 minutes. So go train that network and come back to see my demo programs with a hopefully nice GUI.