The many applications of machine learning

Since neural networks are an important part of machine learning, I'd like to tell you just a few of the most popular applications of machine learning, which is the field of computer science related to training machines to solve problems. Machine learning algorithms are widely used for image recognition where a machine can be taught to make sense of still images or video. An example of this would be face recognition in surveillance systems. 

Speech recognition is something you may already be used to. Well, this is another typical applications of machine learning where the input from thousands and thousands of people has taught a machine what their words mean over time. These people may have different voices and accents and this makes the computer even better at understanding what new people are saying. Prediction is a big application of machine learning, which is useful at producing stock market advice, weather forecasting, and even at many stages of healthcare, like diagnostics and treatment. Another big application of machine learning are recommender systems, which I'm sure you are experiencing all the time in your video services like Netflix and Amazon Prime Video, in online stores like amazon.com and even in the advertisements you get in social media. 

These systems don't only learn from your product feedback, whether you like the product or not or how many stars you gave to it but also from your purchase or view history and from the data of people who behave like you. Finally, an example of machine learning I like very much is akinator.com, which is a geni capable of telling who or what you're thinking of by simply asking questions to you. 

A similar one is 20q.net, which plays the game 20 Questions against you. You should try these two whenever you get bored. They're surprisingly good. Now let me briefly tell you about the three broad paradigms of machine learning and some of their best-known tools. First, we have supervised learning where you actively teach the AI by providing it with lots of data samples, along with the results you expect. Here are two big problems supervised learning can solve. Regression where the AI comes up with the continuous function that behaves like the data you provided. I'm talking about tools like the linear regressions you may have used in spreadsheets. This is useful for making stock market predictions and weather forecasting. 

Next, we have classification or recognizing the category a sample belongs to. Among other famous tools, we have the support vector machine, neural networks and decision trees, which are very suitable for implementing the software behind akinator.com and 20q.net. The second paradigm of machine learning is unsupervised learning where you simply feed data into the AI and it makes sense of this data on its own. 

Among unsupervised learning tools, we have a big family of clustering algorithms to divide samples into clusters, thus learning from the data. This applies to medical imaging and recommender systems. Anomaly detection systems are capable of finding uncommon samples or outliers. This is crucial for detecting credit card fraud, typos in text or medical conditions to name a few. Finally, there's a whole family of neural networks that learn from the data. 

Among these, we have auto encoders, self-organizing maps and deep belief networks. The third paradigm of machine learning is reinforcement learning where the AI is composed of a feedback loop with rewards and penalties based on its behavior. For this area, I'll just mention the most famous application today. AI agents capable of learning how to play video games without supervision. If you've seen one of these projects, you may know that they often exceed human capabilities, which I personally find mind blowing.